x/icacallbacks/README.md, before:

---
title: "Icacallbacks"
excerpt: ""
category: 6392913957c533007128548e
---

# The ICACallbacks Module

Add `icacallbacks` module. Interchain accounts are very useful, but ICA calls triggered by automated logic on Stride are limited in functionality and difficult to work with due to a lack of callbacks. Most of Stride's interchain account logic is triggered epochly from the `BeginBlocker`, and state updates on Stride must be made after ICA calls are issued, based on the success / failure of those calls.

The challenges faced before creating the icacallbacks modules were:
(1) Messages must be handled one-off (by matching on message type) - really what we want to do is update state in acks based on the _transaction_ sent
(2) Message responses are almost always empty, e.g. `MsgDelegateResponse`, which leads to
(3) Matching processed messages to state on the controller is very challenging (sometimes impossible) based on the attributes of the message sent. For example, given the following type

```
type Gift struct {
    from string
    to string
    amount int
    reason string
}
```

two ICA bank sends associated with gifts that have the same `from`, `to` and `amount` but _different_ `reasons` are indistinguishable today in acks.

`icacontroller` solves the issues as follows

- Callbacks can be registered to process data associated with a particular IBC packet, per module (solves 1)
- ICA auth modules can store callback data using `icacallbacks`, passing in both a callback and args
- Arguments to the callback can be (un)marshaled and contain arbitrary keys, allowing for updates to data on the controller chain based on the success / failure of the ICA call (solves 2 / 3)

### Technical notes

- Callbacks are uniquely identifiable through `portId/channelId/sequence` keys
- Only modules that have registered callbacks can invoke them
- `icacallbacks` doesn't have a message server / handler (it can only be called by other modules)
- `icacallbacks` does authentication by fetching the module associated with a packet (containing the registered callbacks) by calling `ChannelKeeper.LookupModuleByChannel` (it's permissioned at the module level)
- `icacallbacks` is an interchain account auth module, although it's possible this design could be generalized to work with other IBC modules
- in case of a timeout, callbacks are still executed with the ack set to an empty byte array
- We're using protos to serialize / deserialize callback arguments

The flow to add callbacks is to call `ICACallbacksKeeper.SetCallbackData` after sending an IBC transaction. When the ack returns

- the callback is fetched using the callback key
- the module is fetched using the portId / channelId
and the callback is invoked and deleted.

The middleware structure is as follows
![middleware](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1331345/183272460-5225d67d-95ee-47e2-8200-11de013a0695.png)

### Invariants

- `portId, channelId` pair map to a unique module (important for fetching the correct `CallbackHandler` from a received packet)
- callback ids are unique within modules (they don't have to be unique between modules, because `CallICACallback` is scoped to a module)

## Keeper functions

- `CallRegisteredICACallback()`: invokes the relevant callback asssociated with an ICA

## State

- `CallbackData`: stores the callback type, arguments and associated packet
- `CallbackHandler`
- `Callbacks`
- `Callback`

## Events

The `icacallbacks` module does not currently emit any events.

Commit message:

removed stride keyword, changed contents of docs, etc

x/icacallbacks/README.md, after:

# The ICACallbacks Module

Add `icacallbacks` module. Interchain accounts are very useful, but ICA calls triggered by automated logic on StayKing are limited in functionality and difficult to work with due to a lack of callbacks. Most of StayKing's interchain account logic is triggered epochly from the `BeginBlocker`, and state updates on StayKing must be made after ICA calls are issued, based on the success / failure of those calls.

The challenges faced before creating the icacallbacks modules were:
(1) Messages must be handled one-off (by matching on message type) - really what we want to do is update state in acks based on the _transaction_ sent
(2) Message responses are almost always empty, e.g. `MsgDelegateResponse`, which leads to
(3) Matching processed messages to state on the controller is very challenging (sometimes impossible) based on the attributes of the message sent. For example, given the following type

```
type Gift struct {
    from string
    to string
    amount int
    reason string
}
```

two ICA bank sends associated with gifts that have the same `from`, `to` and `amount` but _different_ `reasons` are indistinguishable today in acks.

`icacontroller` solves the issues as follows

- Callbacks can be registered to process data associated with a particular IBC packet, per module (solves 1)
- ICA auth modules can store callback data using `icacallbacks`, passing in both a callback and args
- Arguments to the callback can be (un)marshaled and contain arbitrary keys, allowing for updates to data on the controller chain based on the success / failure of the ICA call (solves 2 / 3)

### Technical notes

- Callbacks are uniquely identifiable through `portId/channelId/sequence` keys
- Only modules that have registered callbacks can invoke them
- `icacallbacks` doesn't have a message server / handler (it can only be called by other modules)
- `icacallbacks` does authentication by fetching the module associated with a packet (containing the registered callbacks) by calling `ChannelKeeper.LookupModuleByChannel` (it's permissioned at the module level)
- `icacallbacks` is an interchain account auth module, although it's possible this design could be generalized to work with other IBC modules
- in case of a timeout, callbacks are still executed with the ack set to an empty byte array
- We're using protos to serialize / deserialize callback arguments

The flow to add callbacks is to call `ICACallbacksKeeper.SetCallbackData` after sending an IBC transaction. When the ack returns

- the callback is fetched using the callback key
- the module is fetched using the portId / channelId
and the callback is invoked and deleted.

The middleware structure is as follows
![middleware](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1331345/183272460-5225d67d-95ee-47e2-8200-11de013a0695.png)

### Invariants

- `portId, channelId` pair map to a unique module (important for fetching the correct `CallbackHandler` from a received packet)
- callback ids are unique within modules (they don't have to be unique between modules, because `CallICACallback` is scoped to a module)

## Keeper functions

- `CallRegisteredICACallback()`: invokes the relevant callback asssociated with an ICA

## State

- `CallbackData`: stores the callback type, arguments and associated packet
- `CallbackHandler`
- `Callbacks`
- `Callback`

## Events

The `icacallbacks` module does not currently emit any events.
