x/epochs/README.md, before:

---
title: "Epochs"
excerpt: ""
category: 6392913957c533007128548e
---
<!--
order: 0
title: "Epochs Overview"
parent:
  title: "epochs"
-->

# Epochs

## Abstract</br>

While using the SDK, we often want to run certain code periodically. The `epochs` module allows other modules to be configured such that they are signaled once every period. So another module can specify it wants to execute code once a week, starting at UTC-time = x. `epochs` creates a generalized epoch interface to other modules so that they can easily be signalled upon such events.

## Contents

1. **[Concepts](#concepts)**
2. **[State](#state)**
3. **[Events](#events)**
4. **[Keeper](#keeper)**
5. **[Hooks](#hooks)**
6. **[Queries](#queries)**
7. **[Future Improvements](#future-improvements)**

## Concepts

Epochs are on-chain timers that have timer ticks at specific time intervals, triggering the execution of certain logic that is constrained by a specific epoch. The purpose of the `epochs` module is to provide a generalized epoch interface to other modules so that they can easily implement epochs without keeping their own code for epochs.

Every epoch has a unique identifier. Every epoch will have a start time, and an end time, where `end_time = start_time + duration`.
When an epoch triggers the execution of code, that code is executed at the first block whose blocktime is greater than `end_time`. It follows that the `start_time` of the following epoch will be the `end_time` of the previous epoch.

Stride uses three epoch identifiers as found in `x/epochs/genesis.go`

1. `DAY_EPOCH`: this identifies an epoch that lasts 24 hours.
2. `STRIDE_EPOCH`: this identifies an epoch that lasts 5 minutes on local mode tesnet (although this may be changed) and longer on public testnet and mainnet, and is used in the `x/stakeibc/` module as a time interval in accordance with which the Stride app chain performs certain functions, such as autocompound stakig rewards.

## State

The `epochs` module keeps `EpochInfo` objects and modifies the information as epoch info changes.
Epochs are initialized as part of genesis initialization, and modified on begin blockers or end blockers.

### Epoch information type

```protobuf
message EpochInfo {
    string identifier = 1;
    google.protobuf.Timestamp start_time = 2 [
        (gogoproto.stdtime) = true,
        (gogoproto.nullable) = false,
        (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"start_time\""
    ];
    google.protobuf.Duration duration = 3 [
        (gogoproto.nullable) = false,
        (gogoproto.stdduration) = true,
        (gogoproto.jsontag) = "duration,omitempty",
        (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"duration\""
    ];
    int64 current_epoch = 4;
    google.protobuf.Timestamp current_epoch_start_time = 5 [
        (gogoproto.stdtime) = true,
        (gogoproto.nullable) = false,
        (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"current_epoch_start_time\""
    ];
    bool epoch_counting_started = 6;
    reserved 7;
    int64 current_epoch_start_height = 8;
}
```

`EpochInfo` keeps `identifier`, `start_time`,`duration`, `current_epoch`, `current_epoch_start_time`, `epoch_counting_started`, `current_epoch_start_height`.

1. `identifier` keeps epoch identification string.
2. `start_time` keeps epoch counting start time, if block time passes `start_time`, `epoch_counting_started` is set.
3. `duration` keeps target epoch duration.
4. `current_epoch` keeps current active epoch number.
5. `current_epoch_start_time` keeps the start time of current epoch.
6. `epoch_number` is counted only when `epoch_counting_started` flag is set.
7. `current_epoch_start_height` keeps the start block height of current epoch.

---

## Events

The `epochs` module emits the following events:

### BeginBlocker

| Type        | Attribute Key | Attribute Value |
| ----------- | ------------- | --------------- |
| epoch_start | epoch_number  | {epoch_number}  |
| epoch_start | start_time    | {start_time}    |

### EndBlocker

| Type      | Attribute Key | Attribute Value |
| --------- | ------------- | --------------- |
| epoch_end | epoch_number  | {epoch_number}  |

## Keeper

### Keeper Functions

`epochs/keeper/` module provides utility functions to manage epochs.

```go
// Keeper is the interface for lockup module keeper
type Keeper interface {
  // GetEpochInfo returns epoch info by identifier
  GetEpochInfo(ctx sdk.Context, identifier string) types.EpochInfo
  // SetEpochInfo set epoch info
  SetEpochInfo(ctx sdk.Context, epoch types.EpochInfo)
  // DeleteEpochInfo delete epoch info
  DeleteEpochInfo(ctx sdk.Context, identifier string)
  // IterateEpochInfo iterate through epochs
  IterateEpochInfo(ctx sdk.Context, fn func(index int64, epochInfo types.EpochInfo) (stop bool))
  // Get all epoch infos
  AllEpochInfos(ctx sdk.Context) []types.EpochInfo
}
```

## Hooks

```go
  // the first block whose timestamp is after the duration is counted as the end of the epoch
  AfterEpochEnd(ctx sdk.Context, epochIdentifier string, epochNumber int64)
  // new epoch is next block of epoch end block
  BeforeEpochStart(ctx sdk.Context, epochIdentifier string, epochNumber int64)
```

The `BeforeEpochStart` hook does different things depending on the identifier.

If in a `day` identifier it:

1. begins unbondings
2. sweeps unbonded tokens to the redemption account
3. cleans up old records
4. creates empty epoch unbonding records for the next day

If in a `stride_epoch` identifier it: 5. creates and deposits records on each host zone 6. sets withdrawal addresses 7. updates redemption rates (if the epoch coincides with the correct interval) 8. processes `TRANSFER_QUEUE` deposit records to the delegation Interchain Account (if the epoch coincides with the correct interval) 9. processes `DELEGATION_QUEUE` deposit records to the delegation Interchain Account (if the epoch coincides with the correct interval) 10. Query the rewards account using interchain queries, with the transfer callback to a delegation account as a staked record (if at proper interval)

### How modules receive hooks

On the hook receiver functions of other modules, they need to filter `epochIdentifier` and execute for only a specific `epochIdentifier`.
Filtering `epochIdentifier` could be in `Params` of other modules so that they can be modified by governance.
Governance can change an epoch from `week` to `day` as needed.

## Queries

`epochs` module provides the below queries to check the module's state

```protobuf
service Query {
  // EpochInfos provide running epochInfos
  rpc EpochInfos(QueryEpochsInfoRequest) returns (QueryEpochsInfoResponse) {}
  // CurrentEpoch provide current epoch of specified identifier
  rpc CurrentEpoch(QueryCurrentEpochRequest) returns (QueryCurrentEpochResponse) {}
}
```

## Future Improvements

### Lack point using this module

In current design each epoch should be at least 2 blocks as start block should be different from endblock.
Because of this, each epoch time will be `max(blocks_time x 2, epoch_duration)`.
If epoch_duration is set to `1s`, and `block_time` is `5s`, actual epoch time should be `10s`.
We definitely recommend configure epoch_duration as more than 2x block_time, to use this module correctly.
If you enforce to set it to 1s, it's same as 10s - could make module logic invalid.

TODO for postlaunch: We should see if we can architect things such that the receiver doesn't have to do this filtering, and the epochs module would pre-filter for them.

### Block-time drifts problem

This implementation has block time drift based on block time.
For instance, we have an epoch of 100 units that ends at t=100, if we have a block at t=97 and a block at t=104 and t=110, this epoch ends at t=104.
And new epoch start at t=110. There are time drifts here, for around 1-2 blocks time.
It will slow down epochs.

It's going to slow down epoch by 10-20s per week when epoch duration is 1 week. This should be resolved after launch.

Commit message:

removed stride keyword, changed contents of docs, etc

x/epochs/README.md, after:

# Epochs

## Abstract</br>

While using the SDK, we often want to run certain code periodically. The `epochs` module allows other modules to be configured such that they are signaled once every period. So another module can specify it wants to execute code once a week, starting at UTC-time = x. `epochs` creates a generalized epoch interface to other modules so that they can easily be signalled upon such events.

## Contents

1. **[Concepts](#concepts)**
2. **[State](#state)**
3. **[Events](#events)**
4. **[Keeper](#keeper)**
5. **[Hooks](#hooks)**
6. **[Queries](#queries)**
7. **[Future Improvements](#future-improvements)**

## Concepts

Epochs are on-chain timers that have timer ticks at specific time intervals, triggering the execution of certain logic that is constrained by a specific epoch. The purpose of the `epochs` module is to provide a generalized epoch interface to other modules so that they can easily implement epochs without keeping their own code for epochs.

Every epoch has a unique identifier. Every epoch will have a start time, and an end time, where `end_time = start_time + duration`.
When an epoch triggers the execution of code, that code is executed at the first block whose blocktime is greater than `end_time`. It follows that the `start_time` of the following epoch will be the `end_time` of the previous epoch.

StayKing uses three epoch identifiers as found in `x/epochs/genesis.go`

1. `DAY_EPOCH`: this identifies an epoch that lasts 24 hours.
2. `STAYKING_EPOCH`: this identifies an epoch that lasts 2 minutes on local mode testnet (although this may be changed) and longer on public testnet and mainnet, and is used in the `x/stakeibc/` module as a time interval in accordance with which the StayKing app chain performs certain functions, such as auto-compound staking rewards.

## State

The `epochs` module keeps `EpochInfo` objects and modifies the information as epoch info changes.
Epochs are initialized as part of genesis initialization, and modified on begin blockers or end blockers.

### Epoch information type

```protobuf
message EpochInfo {
    string identifier = 1;
    google.protobuf.Timestamp start_time = 2 [
        (gogoproto.stdtime) = true,
        (gogoproto.nullable) = false,
        (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"start_time\""
    ];
    google.protobuf.Duration duration = 3 [
        (gogoproto.nullable) = false,
        (gogoproto.stdduration) = true,
        (gogoproto.jsontag) = "duration,omitempty",
        (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"duration\""
    ];
    int64 current_epoch = 4;
    google.protobuf.Timestamp current_epoch_start_time = 5 [
        (gogoproto.stdtime) = true,
        (gogoproto.nullable) = false,
        (gogoproto.moretags) = "yaml:\"current_epoch_start_time\""
    ];
    bool epoch_counting_started = 6;
    reserved 7;
    int64 current_epoch_start_height = 8;
}
```

`EpochInfo` keeps `identifier`, `start_time`,`duration`, `current_epoch`, `current_epoch_start_time`, `epoch_counting_started`, `current_epoch_start_height`.

1. `identifier` keeps epoch identification string.
2. `start_time` keeps epoch counting start time, if block time passes `start_time`, `epoch_counting_started` is set.
3. `duration` keeps target epoch duration.
4. `current_epoch` keeps current active epoch number.
5. `current_epoch_start_time` keeps the start time of current epoch.
6. `epoch_number` is counted only when `epoch_counting_started` flag is set.
7. `current_epoch_start_height` keeps the start block height of current epoch.

---

## Events

The `epochs` module emits the following events:

### BeginBlocker

| Type        | Attribute Key | Attribute Value |
| ----------- | ------------- | --------------- |
| epoch_start | epoch_number  | {epoch_number}  |
| epoch_start | start_time    | {start_time}    |

### EndBlocker

| Type      | Attribute Key | Attribute Value |
| --------- | ------------- | --------------- |
| epoch_end | epoch_number  | {epoch_number}  |

## Keeper

### Keeper Functions

`epochs/keeper/` module provides utility functions to manage epochs.

```go
// Keeper is the interface for lockup module keeper
type Keeper interface {
  // GetEpochInfo returns epoch info by identifier
  GetEpochInfo(ctx sdk.Context, identifier string) types.EpochInfo
  // SetEpochInfo set epoch info
  SetEpochInfo(ctx sdk.Context, epoch types.EpochInfo)
  // DeleteEpochInfo delete epoch info
  DeleteEpochInfo(ctx sdk.Context, identifier string)
  // IterateEpochInfo iterate through epochs
  IterateEpochInfo(ctx sdk.Context, fn func(index int64, epochInfo types.EpochInfo) (stop bool))
  // Get all epoch infos
  AllEpochInfos(ctx sdk.Context) []types.EpochInfo
}
```

## Hooks

```go
  // the first block whose timestamp is after the duration is counted as the end of the epoch
  AfterEpochEnd(ctx sdk.Context, epochIdentifier string, epochNumber int64)
  // new epoch is next block of epoch end block
  BeforeEpochStart(ctx sdk.Context, epochIdentifier string, epochNumber int64)
```

The `BeforeEpochStart` hook does different things depending on the identifier.

If in a `day` identifier it:

1. begins unbondings
2. sweeps unbonded tokens to the redemption account
3. cleans up old records
4. creates empty epoch unbonding records for the next day

If in a `stayking_epoch` identifier it: 5. creates and deposits records on each host zone 6. sets withdrawal addresses 7. updates redemption rates (if the epoch coincides with the correct interval) 8. processes `TRANSFER_QUEUE` deposit records to the delegation Interchain Account (if the epoch coincides with the correct interval) 9. processes `DELEGATION_QUEUE` deposit records to the delegation Interchain Account (if the epoch coincides with the correct interval) 10. Query the rewards account using interchain queries, with the transfer callback to a delegation account as a staked record (if at proper interval)

### How modules receive hooks

On the hook receiver functions of other modules, they need to filter `epochIdentifier` and execute for only a specific `epochIdentifier`.
Filtering `epochIdentifier` could be in `Params` of other modules so that they can be modified by governance.
Governance can change an epoch from `week` to `day` as needed.

## Queries

`epochs` module provides the below queries to check the module's state

```protobuf
service Query {
  // EpochInfos provide running epochInfos
  rpc EpochInfos(QueryEpochsInfoRequest) returns (QueryEpochsInfoResponse) {}
  // CurrentEpoch provide current epoch of specified identifier
  rpc CurrentEpoch(QueryCurrentEpochRequest) returns (QueryCurrentEpochResponse) {}
}
```

## Future Improvements

### Lack point using this module

In current design each epoch should be at least 2 blocks as start block should be different from endblock.
Because of this, each epoch time will be `max(blocks_time x 2, epoch_duration)`.
If epoch_duration is set to `1s`, and `block_time` is `5s`, actual epoch time should be `10s`.
We definitely recommend configure epoch_duration as more than 2x block_time, to use this module correctly.
If you enforce to set it to 1s, it's same as 10s - could make module logic invalid.

TODO for postlaunch: We should see if we can architect things such that the receiver doesn't have to do this filtering, and the epochs module would pre-filter for them.

### Block-time drifts problem

This implementation has block time drift based on block time.
For instance, we have an epoch of 100 units that ends at t=100, if we have a block at t=97 and a block at t=104 and t=110, this epoch ends at t=104.
And new epoch start at t=110. There are time drifts here, for around 1-2 blocks time.
It will slow down epochs.

It's going to slow down epoch by 10-20s per week when epoch duration is 1 week. This should be resolved after launch.
